README.md, before:

# Pentest Everything

_This cheatsheet may no longer be comprehensive since the exam was drastically changed in early 2022._

This is the penetration testing cheatsheet I created to get my OSCP certification. It has quick guides and useful commands to enumerate and exploit some low-hanging fruits and common services. I recommend absolute beginners to look at the [references](#references) to fully understand what's going on here.

Also, I added links to original repositories and/or authors of the [utilities](#utilities) I use. I compiled some utilities and put them into the private repo _(pentesting-tools)_. I cannot share them due to legal reasons, so you have to download/compile them yourself.

[Github-md-toc-generator](https://github.com/mchern1kov/github-md-toc-generator) is used to generate Tables of Contents.
```
─────█─▄▀█──█▀▄─█───── 
────▐▌──────────▐▌──── 
────█▌▀▄──▄▄──▄▀▐█──── 
───▐██──▀▀──▀▀──██▌─── 
──▄████▄──▐▌──▄████▄──
```

---
### Contents
- [Kali Virtual Machine Configuration](/vm_config/README.md)
- [Enumeration and Exploitation of Services](/enum_and_exploit/README.md)
- [Buffer Overflow Attack](/buffer_overflow/README.md)
- [Linux Privilege Escalation](/privesc/linux/README.md)
- [Windows Privilege Escalation](/privesc/windows/README.md)
- [Utilities](/utils/README.md)

### Utilities
- [winPEAS](https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/winPEAS)
- [linPEAS](https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/linPEAS)
- [Linux Smart Enumeration](https://github.com/diego-treitos/linux-smart-enumeration)
- [Linux Exploit Suggester](https://github.com/mzet-/linux-exploit-suggester)
- [mkpsrevshell](https://gist.github.com/tothi/ab288fb523a4b32b51a53e542d40fe58)
- [SharpUp](https://github.com/GhostPack/SharpUp)
- [AccessChk](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/accesschk)
- [PowerView](https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/tree/master/Recon)
- [Seatbelt](https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt)
- [Rubeus](https://github.com/GhostPack/Rubeus)
- [Mimikatz](https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz)
- [SharpHound](https://github.com/BloodHoundAD/SharpHound3)
- [Procmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/procmon)
- [creddump7](https://github.com/CiscoCXSecurity/creddump7)
- [Plink](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html)
- [HotPotato](https://github.com/foxglovesec/Potato)
- [RoguePotato](https://github.com/antonioCoco/RoguePotato)
- [PrintSpoofer](https://github.com/itm4n/PrintSpoofer)
- [JuicyPotato](https://github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato)
- [incognito](https://github.com/FSecureLABS/incognito)
- [SharpWeb](https://github.com/djhohnstein/SharpWeb)
- [pspy](https://github.com/DominicBreuker/pspy)
- [mongodb2hashcat](https://github.com/philsmd/mongodb2hashcat)
- [Probable-Wordlists](https://github.com/berzerk0/Probable-Wordlists)
- [Payloadbox](https://github.com/payloadbox)
- [PayloadAllTheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings)

### References
- [TryHackMe Offensive Pentesting](https://tryhackme.com/path/outline/pentesting)
- [PortSwigger WebSecurity Academy](https://portswigger.net/web-security)
- [Tib3rius Linux Privilege Escalation Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-privilege-escalation/)
- [Tib3rius Windows Privilege Escalation Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/windows-privilege-escalation/)
- [John Hammond YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVeW9qkBjo3zosnqUbG7CFw)
- [IppSec YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCa6eh7gCkpPo5XXUDfygQQA)

Commit message:

Libraries and configurations updated Some exploitation techniques added README.md updated

README.md, after:

# Pentest Everything

_I initially created this cheatsheet for the **OSCP** exam, but it is **no longer comprehensive** since the exam 
was drastically changed in early 2022. However, it may still be useful for pentesting, CTFs, or just as a great 
example of exam cheatsheets._

This cheatsheet has quick guides and useful commands to enumerate and exploit low-hanging fruits and common services. 

I recommend beginners look at the [references](#references). These courses and videos helped me gain fundamental 
knowledge for the OSCP exam and pentesting in general.

Also, I added links to original repositories and/or authors of the [utilities](#utilities) I use. I compiled/downloaded  
utilities and put them into my private repo _(pentesting-tools)_. I cannot share them for legal reasons, so you 
have to compile/download them yourself.

[Github-md-toc-generator](https://github.com/mchern1kov/github-md-toc-generator) is used to generate Tables of Contents.
```
─────█─▄▀█──█▀▄─█───── 
────▐▌──────────▐▌──── 
────█▌▀▄──▄▄──▄▀▐█──── 
───▐██──▀▀──▀▀──██▌─── 
──▄████▄──▐▌──▄████▄──
```

---
### Contents
- [Kali Virtual Machine Configuration](/vm_config/README.md)
- [Enumeration and Exploitation of Services](/enum_and_exploit/README.md)
- [Buffer Overflow Attack](/buffer_overflow/README.md)
- [Linux Privilege Escalation](/privesc/linux/README.md)
- [Windows Privilege Escalation](/privesc/windows/README.md)
- [Utilities](/utils/README.md)

### Utilities
- [winPEAS](https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/winPEAS)
- [linPEAS](https://github.com/carlospolop/privilege-escalation-awesome-scripts-suite/tree/master/linPEAS)
- [Linux Smart Enumeration](https://github.com/diego-treitos/linux-smart-enumeration)
- [Linux Exploit Suggester](https://github.com/mzet-/linux-exploit-suggester)
- [mkpsrevshell](https://gist.github.com/tothi/ab288fb523a4b32b51a53e542d40fe58)
- [SharpUp](https://github.com/GhostPack/SharpUp)
- [AccessChk](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/accesschk)
- [PowerView](https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit/tree/master/Recon)
- [Seatbelt](https://github.com/GhostPack/Seatbelt)
- [Rubeus](https://github.com/GhostPack/Rubeus)
- [Mimikatz](https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz)
- [SharpHound](https://github.com/BloodHoundAD/SharpHound3)
- [Procmon](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/procmon)
- [creddump7](https://github.com/CiscoCXSecurity/creddump7)
- [Plink](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html)
- [HotPotato](https://github.com/foxglovesec/Potato)
- [RoguePotato](https://github.com/antonioCoco/RoguePotato)
- [PrintSpoofer](https://github.com/itm4n/PrintSpoofer)
- [JuicyPotato](https://github.com/ohpe/juicy-potato)
- [incognito](https://github.com/FSecureLABS/incognito)
- [SharpWeb](https://github.com/djhohnstein/SharpWeb)
- [pspy](https://github.com/DominicBreuker/pspy)
- [mongodb2hashcat](https://github.com/philsmd/mongodb2hashcat)
- [Probable-Wordlists](https://github.com/berzerk0/Probable-Wordlists)
- [Payloadbox](https://github.com/payloadbox)
- [PayloadAllTheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings)

### References
- [TryHackMe Offensive Pentesting](https://tryhackme.com/path/outline/pentesting)
- [PortSwigger WebSecurity Academy](https://portswigger.net/web-security)
- [Tib3rius Linux Privilege Escalation Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-privilege-escalation/)
- [Tib3rius Windows Privilege Escalation Udemy course](https://www.udemy.com/course/windows-privilege-escalation/)
- [John Hammond YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVeW9qkBjo3zosnqUbG7CFw)
- [IppSec YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCa6eh7gCkpPo5XXUDfygQQA)
